[MUSIC]
Okay, so my name is Estefania and
I'm a professor here at the U
of A teaching Computing Science.
So one of the things is that of
course if you want to have a solution
then you should know what your
problem is because your solution is
going to be a function of
the problem that you're working on.
And the other thing is that is that while
you might think that this determines
what you do always but
sometimes you just want to develop tools.
And when you're developing tools
then you want to know which
problems these tools fit and
which problems they fit well and
which problems they are not fit that well.
So they're two important things
that you should start with when
thinking about problems to solve
with reinforcement learning.
First, you should be really clear
about the goal that you have and
you can have different types of goals.
You can have a goal of solving
a specific type of problem or
just like some part of a problem or
you could be interested in
developing some kind of tool.
And then, in that case,
you should be clear about
what are the goals in
developing those tools?
So where do you want to
apply the tools for?
And when it comes to specifying
a problem the things you should
be thinking about are the following.
You should be thinking about how
the data is going to be collected?
And how you're going to evaluate
the algorithms that you're going to
develop but at the specific
properties of the environment if any?
And I'm going to expand on these.
So when talking about
the data that you're going to
use in your algorithm there
are different types of
problems depending on how
you're acquiring the data.
So maybe your system is going to
interact with the real world or
maybe it's going to interact
with a simulator or
there will be no interaction at all and
the data is going to sit on a disk.
And depending on which situation you
are in you may need to choose very
different tools and techniques and
you will have different concerns.
So if your system is interacting
with the real world then,
of course, the real world is
running at our own speeds so
data efficiency is going
to be of major concern.
If you're interacting with
a simulator then maybe
all you care about is how much
compute you're going to use.
Why, if there is no interaction at all
then you have all the data saved on a disk
then you care about how much information
you can extract from this data.
So you will have different goals depending
on where the data is coming from.
And the algorithms that you will need to
apply are going to change accordingly.
So the other aspect of specifying
what reinforcement learning
problem you have is how you're going
to evaluate your algorithms, right?
So do you care about efficient learning?
And if you do care about efficient
learning as probably you should.
You, You care about how well your system
is going to do at the end of the learning.
Or you're trying to develop a learning
system that is also doing well during
learning.
So depending on the situation you are in
you might choose different algorithms.
So the algorithm, for example,
that cares about like if you
care about how well you're going
to do at the end of learning
then your algorithm may do
crazy exploration that may be
very expensive in terms of
reward while it's learning.
But if you're in the second situation
where you care about the reward
collected during learning then
you may not want to do that,
that much so you will need to
choose different solutions again.
And finally, you will need to
choose your performance metrics and
there's a wide range of
possibilities there as well.
You might care about total reward,
maybe you will use a discount factor.
Maybe you care about
the risk-sensitivity of your solution.
performance across different
environments in worse-case sense or
average sense.
Maybe you don't care about the reward
maybe you care about how much knowledge is
acquired or what skills are acquired
at the end of the learning period.
So in all of these different
settings you're going to evaluate
your algorithm differently and you might
choose very different algorithms for
different settings.
And finally,
it's also very important to think a little
bit about the specific
aspects of the environment
that you're interested in dealing with.
So the simplest of this is
just like how many states and
actions do you have in the environment?
So if you have like a large
number of states are there any
irregularities between
the states that you can exploit?
If you have a large number of actions
then if you have continuously
many actions than some
algorithms become unavailable
because they're not able to
deal with those settings.
But if you have finitely many actions,
of actions then maybe use of those
algorithms become available so
you may want to choose them.
And the other aspect could
be that maybe the rewards
in the environment or
the cost can blow up, so
they can become unbounded and
then you don't
want to run the risk of
facing unbounded costs.
Maybe the rewards random or the
environment is random or maybe it's not.
And again, if the environment is not
random then you can have specialized
algorithm that take advantage of that,
the problem is much simpler.
So all of these aspects of
the environment are pretty important and
you will choose your algorithm
based on what situation you are in.
And why is this important you may ask?
Well, just as an illustration
just think about the simple
Bandit Problem where you
have maybe two arms and
the underlying distribution of the arms
are Stochastic Bandit are unknown.
But if you happen to know that the
distribution belongs to a specific family
like you have normal distributions or
you have Bandit distributions
then you will choose algorithms
that depend on these distributions.
And distribution depends
on the knowledge that you
have about these distributions and
your algorithm
will do much better if you
explore these properties.
So in a nutshell,
it's important to be clear about
what is the problem
that you're solving for
the sake of choosing the right
algorithm and also for
the sake of clarity of
the scoop of your solution is
going to depend on this and
you want to be clear about it.